Add label-based access control how-to-guide (#547)
memgraph/docs: docs/how-to-guides/manage-label-based-access-control-permissions.md

---

> id: manage-label-based-access-control-permissions
> title: How to manage label-based access control permissions (Enterprise)
> sidebar_label: Manage label-based access control permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id: manage-label-based-access-control
title: How to manage label-based access control (Enterprise)
sidebar_label: Manage label-based access control
```

I don't think we need PERMISSIONS as well :/ sounds strange

---

> [![Related - Reference Guide](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Related&message=Reference%20Guide&color=yellow&style=for-the-badge)](/reference-guide/security.md)

Reviewer: Anchor to that chapter in the reference guide...
YOu can create an issue for me to add it once everything is merged

CONSTRAINT        | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
DUMP              | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
REPLICATION       | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
READ_FILE         | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
DURABILITY        | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
FREE_MEMORY       | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
TRIGGER           | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
CONFIG            | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
STREAM            | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
MODULE_READ       | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
MODULE_WRITE      | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
WEBSOCKET         | GRANT           | GRANTED TO USER                             
ALL LABELS        | CREATE_DELETE   | GLOBAL LABEL PERMISSION GRANTED TO USER     
ALL EDGE_TYPES    | CREATE_DELETE   | GLOBAL EDGE_TYPE PERMISSION GRANTED TO USER 

> Alice can now log in as an administrator in Memgraph with her own account. From that point on,

Reviewer: Maybe add somewhere here link to that how-to about creating users and granting permissions?
http://localhost:3000/docs/memgraph/next/how-to-guides/manage-user-privileges

won't have any privileges or label-based permissions and need additional commands to be granted
permissions to the clauses and the graph.

## Granting read permissions

Bob is a data analyst for the company. He is making sure he can extract any useful insights
from the data imported into the database. For now, all the data is labeled with the `DataPoint`
label. Alice has already created a data analyst role as well as Bob's account in Memgraph with:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE analyst;
CREATE USER Bob IDENTIFIED BY 'test';
SET ROLE FOR Bob TO analyst;
```

Unfortunately, when he writes:

```cypher
MATCH (n:DataPoint) RETURN n;
```

he gets an error that he can not execute the query. Why is that?
The first problem that we encounter is that Bob can not perform `MATCH` queries,
which we must explicitly grant.

The database administrator grants him and all the data analysts the `MATCH` query
to traverse the graph with:

```cypher
GRANT MATCH TO analyst;
```

Now Bob is able to perform a match. However, by executing the same query again, he 
is not able to get any results. Now that's unfortunate. Did we do anything wrong?

> Enter label-based access control. Since Bob was not an administrator, he was not able

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter label-based access control. Since Bob is not an administrator, he was not able
```

> to see any data points in the graph. In other words, he does not have read permission 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to see any data points in the graph. In other words, he does not have `READ` permission 
```

on the `DataPoint` label.

Memgraph's label-based access control is hierarchically constructed, and the first

> permission one can be given is `READ`, on node labels or relationship edge types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permission one can be given on node labels or relationship edge types is `READ`.
```

Alice now updates Bob's permissions by executing:

```cypher
GRANT READ ON LABELS :DataPoint TO analyst;
```

Bob is now executing his queries normally and is able to get insights from the database 
with respect to all the data points in the graph!

Additionally, in the company, it was decided that all the data points would be connected 
in a time series fashion, depending on when they were ingested into the database. One 
`DataPoint` should therefore be connected to the previously inserted one. 

> The relationship edge type is called `:NEXT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relationship type is called `:NEXT`.
```

---
id: manage-label-based-access-control-permissions
title: How to manage label-based access control permissions (Enterprise)
sidebar_label: Manage label-based access control permissions
---

[![Related - Reference Guide](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Related&message=Reference%20Guide&color=yellow&style=for-the-badge)](/reference-guide/security.md)

:::warning
This is an Enterprise feature.
If the Memgraph Enterprise is not activated, all the created users will be granted
all of the privileges.

> Regardless, all of the previously defined privileges will still be applied.

Reviewer: What do you mean by this last sentence?

Author: I actully left this paragraph since it was in the previous how to guide of authorization.
http://localhost:3000/docs/memgraph/next/how-to-guides/manage-user-privileges

:::

Sometimes authorizing the database by granting and denying clause privileges is not enough to make the

> database fully secure. There can always exist some nodes and relationships which are confidential and 
> need to be restricted for view and manipulation to multiple users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database fully secure. Certain nodes and relationships can be confidential and 
must be restricted from viewing and manipulating by multiple users.
```
